the Celtics and Lakers rivalry was the
perfect drama for a nationwide audience
with the involved plot complications of
the Celtic dynasty and the Lakers
revenge viewers watched in record number
the Larry Bird Xindi reinforces number
one but the Celtics would certainly have
more problems and the Lakers and for
more on that let's go back upstairs the
grand antique for game shot so we are
set to begin now is Game one we are down
to the Magnificent - it's the Lakers and
the Celtics coming up interest was
building before the Celtics and Lakers
would grind elbows they have to square
off against a different kind of opponent
pregame tension it affects even the most
seasoned athlete for the Lakers it was a
tough battle omits Boston jealous
supporter the Celtics had their own case
of the warm-up jitter their fans were so
accustomed to salting championships that
they practically demanded it they were
ready to chalk up another victory to
Boston's illustrious 15 and one finals
record
for both sides pregame tension was
inescapable a World Championship the
Thunder is din the superb competition
all beneath the legendary banners of
basketballs most hallowed Hall they were
the supreme ingredients for the year's
most anticipated moment the Remax of the
NBA's best two team
no team has won back-to-back
championships since the Bill Russell
Celtics a legacy Larry Bird hoped to
revive bird was one of five championship
MVP winners on hand
another was Magic Johnson who vowed to
redeem himself from last year's poor
showing but in a series highlighted by
star-studded lineup game one pacesetter
didn't even appear on the marquee Danny
Ainge the greenest of the Celtic
starters took over as Boston's floor
leader last year Ainge watched his
predecessor gerald Henderson riddled the
Lakers with timely outside shooting now
it was his turn to be dead solid perfect
changes 15 first quarter points boost to
the Celtics to a comfortable and
seemingly effortlessly
age has always enjoyed a fine reputation
as a street shooter but rarely in a game
of this magnitude his performance was
convincing and slightly unexpected
Kareem abdul-jabbar's was simply
unexpected as the Lakers customarily do
during an opposition's hot streak they
turn to Kareem to provide stability but
Kareem was wobbly at best robert pirès
through Kareem's low post offense
completely off-balance it was remarkably
reminiscent of game 1 in the
philadelphia series when parish
dominated Moses Malone
Corrine's game looks black and his
hustle was closer to a four tire blower
the Lakers were taught a first-half
lesson in humility led by parish's
mastery over Kareem the future
hall-of-famer turned in his work game as
a playoff performer enabling Boston to
establish a championship record of 79
first-half points and if that wasn't
enough the Celtics were thirsting for
more Casey Jones wanted to keep his team
shot he inserted Scott Wedman who
promptly took over where Ainge left off
the sharp shooting swing man connected
on all 11 of his field goal attempts
including an incredible 4 for 4 tally
from three-point range
when meant exemplified Boston's day of
perfection
for all the glorious game played in
Celtic history Boston had never enjoyed
a game quite like this the Celtics won
48 to 114 win marked the greatest margin
of victory ever in an NBA Finals context
Celtic delirium captivated the guard
even loyal Laker fans had to acknowledge
this awesome display of basketball might
but the Lakers themselves were not ready
to throw in the towel they would have to
come back from a Memorial Day Massacre
and Casey Jones knew it best this was a
this was a whipping and they're going to
come smoking and burning and this is
going to be a motivating point for them
about the next ball game
so come Thursday we know we are in deep
trouble and we have to come out and try
to match the intensity that they're
going to come up with they were going on
all cylinders and they were primed and
ready for the first home game and they
deserve a lot of credit we will be back
you know if seven-game series can be
decided in one game then it would be
over with but there's going to be six
more basketball games